October 13, 2025

-> 8:50 - 9:00
Reads. Get's scared bcz don't know anything about company incentives.
Runs to take breakfast.

-> 9:20 - 9:30
Gonna take a look at the csv files (while eating)
Can already imagine those descriptions of companies being used in a prompt or something
So many things I don't understand in the incentives files
Maybe later I'll use GPT to give me explanations and examples of what you want.

-> 9:30 - 11:00
Gonna tutor someone next door (unrelated, but her mom is paying me to do it so..)

-> 11:00 - 11:15
Creating a git repo to later work on this

-> 11:15 - 12:15
Personal family matters


-> 12:15 - 13:00
Gonna go to the gym while asking deepseek what incentives are, what they mean, and how does that relate to the csv's given.
Eventually I got what incentives are, and what is the purpose of this project.
In my head this is just a matchmaking thing with a chatbot above it.
So basically RAG 101, there may be a twist to it but I'll maybe find out later

-> 13:00 - 13:30
Lunch

-> 13:30 - 14:30
Going to college (by public transportation cuz i have no car), because I have like 3 meetings today, and they like to waste my time by making me phisically going instead of just doing them online.
On my way to college I saw some videos on RAG to refresh my memory on how it works, since the last time I used it was 2 years ago.

-> 14:30 - 17:00
Meetings at college, some giving me more work than the ones I already had, prolly will work on those later
Other meetings was just saying that the meetings will now happen on another day (what a complete waste of time)
I'm going home (probably one more hour or so to come back)

-> 17:00 - 18:30
Finally home, first train was full so had to take another

-> 18:30 - 19:30
Some house chores.. and helping family with stuff...

-> 19:30 - 21:15
Heated my dinner and finally gonna start testing some stuff
20:18 - daam i just found out there are paid embedding models on openai, really thought everyone used bge or some hugging face one with some training or something
I tested some code on RAG to see if I grasp a bit more of that

-> 21:15 - 21:50
Break, because someone called me

-> 21:50 - 00:30
Testing a bit more with RAG and a random PDF
Trying to understand why rag is so bad, is it just bad querys? or bad models? idk.. i'll look into that later
Install postgres to start thinking about how to put this on that database that I haven't used since forever
Maybe procrastinate for 30 minutos on youtube
Make the database they asked about with all the table information and stuff
Maybe or maybe not used deepseek to help me around sql (i never needed to learn postgres in depht, but i can if needed for the job *cof*)
Going to sleep thinking about how will I even make this work, should I save the embedings on postgres? is that even possible? I only used Chroma so far, i guess its another question to deepseek..
I guess the chunks will be easier to separate, no overlap needed as well, hmm.. I have a feeling the rag will do a terrible job and I'll need to improv a better solution or something.

-> 00:30 - 09:30
Procrastination and Sleep

October 14, 2025  (Counting the day after I wake up)

-> 09:30 - 10:00
Back to the computer, see some videos on Postgres with Rag and see if I can save embedings there
Hmmmmm maybe I'll create another collumn to put embeddings on the companies.. but should I also make in the incentives? seems like they gave a fixed format for the incentives... idk maybe i'll do it anyways... or maybe not because the challenge is clear, they want to identify companies based on incentives..
"Para cada incentivo, identificar e listar automaticamente as 5 empresas"
And also the wording on the chatbot is different for incentives and companies..
"
- *obter* informação sobre os incentivos,
- *consultar* dados sobre empresas,
"
Maybe, I could put an UI where the user can choose the incentive, therefore "obtaining" info about it, and then consulting info from the companie only when matched with the incentive (?)
Also again in requirements it says:
"<0.30$ para identificar as 5 melhores *empresas por incentivo*."
So it's becoming even more clear that I might just want embedings on companies.. but we'll see
I also need to think later about scaling, there seems to be 2 types of scaling.. one where we add more companies/incentives, and other where we add more tables (e.g. illegalities on companies, then that would match with companies or something...), not quite sure how I would do the second one but anyways.. maybe it's not that hard.

-> 10:00 - 10:30
Testing embeddings from different models, and also OpenAI models with your key
I'll make a class to track how much I'm spending because... I don't really know how to see how much I have left

-> 10:30 - 10:40
Break

-> 10:40 - 11:15
Ok, made a class embedder to call openai embedder and to keep track of how much I spent in tokens and money (excluding batch calls, so the total money may be less)

-> 11:15 - 12:20
Gonna prepare lunch now, while thinking and searching on how to make this work now on postgres, seems to easy to just throw the embeddings on a table togheter with the companies...
From what i'm looking, I need a pgvector extension, sounds incredibly usefull. No ideia how to get it tho.
Gonna see some videos on how to setup that..
All videos are using docker, imma be different guy and not use it (i never really liked using docker anyways)
Hope it works when i test it tho, otherwise imma just cry
Eating lunch

-> 12:20 - 12:45
Washing the dishes
A bit of Procrastination

-> 12:45 - 14:00
Ok just installed the pgvector extension: https://github.com/pgvector/pgvector
Testing in companies table some values (just to not embed all of them and waste money), and embeddings seem to be there.. now I may test if I can find them with similarity search

Nice, I got my first success RAG search! (i guess)
By now I can send a query like: "Industrias de distribuição de gás"
And I successfully got TAXIGÁS as the first result, along with NEVE-GÁS (there are 250k samples, but I tested with 1k for this example.)

-> 14:00 - 14:45
Break for Professional matters (there's money on the line)

-> 14:45 - 16:45
Ok gotta add the 250k embeddings to the postgres, spend something around 60 cents..
I'm noticing (I already did but now I'm thinking more about it) that the table for incentives does not have the "all_data" which could be usefull in some way... Oh well that's what they asked for so.. in normal situations I would ask a superior more clarifications like: Do I have to search for incentives with rag as well? Does the user select an incentive and then ask for companies that are matching with that incentive? Does the oposite search happens? (Which would be much more usefull)
They say the goal is: "Desenvolver um sistema que permita identificar, para cada incentivo público existente em Portugal, as empresas mais adequadas" which suggests we already have the incentives.. and with them find companies...
BUT then they say: "... bem como disponibilizar um chatbot capaz de responder a perguntas sobre a informação contida na base de dados."
which suggests the chatbot should be able to answer questions about any info on the db, including incentives... arr what a headache

Well I guess i'll use some other way to get incentives since there are only 500.. like text comparisson or something
I guess I could ask to find by id or by name, and then do the rest..

Ok I made querying by name and id possible.. as well as querying the companies.. now I just need to bundle all of that I suppose
Also filled all 250k embeddings of the companies, it took some time... but at least now if one wants to add a company, it only has to embedd that information once.

-> 16:45 - 17:45
Ok made a basic conversation cycle with an API
Started working on the tool calling thing, so it can make calls to the database and add to the context before answering

-> 17:45 - 18:20
Break, I'm hungry and tired

-> 18:20 - 20:00
Ok almost done with the chatbot cycle, he can now answer things about companies, incentives, incentives given its id, ...
Now I just need the last part, companies by incentive...
(and yeah this took longer than expected because i was tweaking with the prompts and blablabla)

-> 20:00 - 20:25
Procrastinating messaging my gf

-> 20:25 - 21:00
Ok technically it's """"done""""
Since it can now answer everything, i guess,... i hope..
Now i suppose i need to do figure out what does "output do matching em csv" mean.. like do they want a web response gpt-like that delivers a file with the answers? Do they want an external matching csv file? 

-> 21:00 - 21:15
Hmm.. maybe i'm cooked, i kinda missed the small words: "a avaliação da correspondência não deve ser meramente subjetiva, devendo basear-se em critérios claros que assegurem consistência na análise."

I suppose the evaluation is very subjective rn.. I mean it's subjective if the evaluation is subjective (lol), but idk do they want me to filter results based on deterministic things?

The only way I can think of doing that is by including some of the "all data" form the incentives on the db, but the table format they gave me didn't had a space for that.. hmm.. I might ask for help here..

-> 21:15 - 22:15
Having dinner, washing dishes, blablabla

-> 22:15 - 23:30
Ok imma make the questions I have to them now on whatsapp, maybe they'll clarify if I'm cooked or if I'm doing great..
while they don't answer imma look into the cost tokens per conversation, to see if I can make some predictions of how much would cost and stuff

Yup ok I guess I'll have to put this s*it in a docker.. ARR i hate docker. (*cof* of course if needed for the job i'll simply study it again and refresh what I learned before, or something)
Don't even know where to start.

-> 23:30 - 3:00
Guess I'll spend the next hours putting this in a docker, as well as making a big csv file with the incentive - 5 best companies.
ok now it's 3 am and I finally put docker working with this s*it
I had to make a server so I could connect to the docker server by using my cmd locally, "streaming" chunks via fastapi was also a pain, had to use claude ai to help on almost everything now bcz i'm getting tired and I hate docker setups, or any setup for that matter

-> 3:00 - 4:00
Ok, final tweaks on some stuff done, the csv is created, I was also searching on how to send this to them, but I guess it will be by using git and they run the docker commands or something

